---
layout: post
title: My first SANS Training Event - SEC401
subtitle: Thoughts from an Exhausted Trainee
tags: [posts]
author: Levi.
---

## Ok, first of all. Wow. What a week.

In terms of training, and study throughout my career in IT and Cybersecurity - that was the *most intense* training I have ever done. I am basically a walking, exhausted baked potato at this point. Looking back at the week, I don't think I actually went to sleep before 2 am a single day last week (yay hotel life!)

You've heard the phrase "Like drinking from a Fire Hose" before? This was like drinking from 4 different fire hydrants all at once. Alright, probably time for some context. So lets give you the **Executive Summary** (*Cracks CTI Reporting Knuckles*) **"But wait, Levi...What are you refering to?"** Great question! Lets dive in...

---

**SANS401** is a fantastic starting point. A fundamentals course, covering essentials for Network, Endpoint and Cloud - This training course walks you through nuts and bolts of information security and cybersecurity essentials. It walks (runs?) you through the core tenants of Network Analysis; giving you a crash course on tools like *tcpdump* and *Wireshark* to explore netflow logs, network flow information and more. Threat Detection? Lets go, log analysis with tools like *Snort3* and *Zeek* to learn intrusion detection and net security monitoring. Bro do you even Linux? Cause this course gives you a ton of experience in System Security, specifically in in Linux Logging and Auditing, Windows Process Exploration, and Windows Filesystem Permissions. Auditing and Compliance? Yes. Cryptography and Recovery? Bet. Automation and discovery with Powershell and learning to identify web app exploitation...Its all there. It was the most information I've received in a 6 day time frame in my life. Everday...10 hours a day. Oh...and did I mention? All that ^^^^ thats just the labs. The textbooks have even more!

But I know your primary question. "LEVI, should *I* take this course?" Well here's what my thoughts on that...I've been in IT for 10+ years and Cyber for 3+ (more or less) and I learned a ton. Like a TON. Did I know some of the stuff? Absolutely, but what I *did* know, just got reinforced and broadened. This course is wide, for sure. LOTS of topics. But it is also deep.

And, there were all types of people there. Someone who had been in IT/Cyber for 10+ years like me, one person who had been in cloud services for 10+ years, programmers, software engineers, cybersecurity managers AND those just starting out.

So how do I feel about it? To be completely honest with you, I'm still processing it. You've likely heard the term "Bootcamp" before in terms of cyber courses, and SANS is no different. From 9am to 7pm every day we dove in, and we dove in hard. That said, I'm still digesting everything we learned, still recovering from a week of sleeping in a hotel, and traveling on delayed flights. However, bottom line? Man am I grateful. Grateful to my company and boss for financing the trip, grateful to SANS for offering so many attendance options and locations this year, and ***Especially***....especially I am grateful to Bryan Simon for delivering an amazing amount of material and lab work to us, while keeping us engaged, answering online questions and telling stories throughout.

MAN what an experience.

### So Levi, whats next?!

Well i'm glad you asked, and if you didn't, I'm gonna tell you anyway! Next steps for me are going to include taking the GIAC GSEC certification exam. But even before that, I need ot study, practice and build out an index through all 6 (yes SIX) of my books (Sorry Bryan, I will try to use it as little as possible.) So keep a lookout, because I'll probably be posting thoughts on post class study and index building within the next week.

For now, I'll sign off. But not before wishing you a happy Sunday evening (depending on your timezone)! May your reports be targeted, your coffee and tea be strong, and your stress level low this upcoming week! *Stay Soupy! Stay Secure!*

'**`root@Soupy:~# eat_soup --secure`**' 
